# MIME

MIME types were created to allow users to send non-ASCII characters over email. This opened the door for email attachments. Now not only attachments but every file transmitted over the web has a MIME type.

MIME types reflect the fashions of the early web. CSS is a subtype within the type text (content type text/css), implying that humans write CSS. Meanwhile, JavaScript is a subtype within the type application (content type application/javascript), implying that JavaScript code is generated by applications rather than written by human programmers. Perhaps, this is how JavaScript was mostly used in the days when MIME got started. It was akin to PDF documents (content type application/pdf) or ZIP archives (content type application/zip) in a sense that we needed special software to generate it.

Along with MIME, base64 encoding was created as a workaround to allow email users to send each other binary data as ASCII text.

> The ASCII encoding of binary data is called base64 encoding. In this scheme, groups of 24 bits are broken up into four 6-bit units, with each unit being sent as a legal ASCII character. The coding is ‘‘A’’ for 0, ‘‘B’’ for 1, and so on, followed by the 26 lowercase letters, the 10 digits, and finally + and / for 62 and 63, respectively. The == and = sequences indicate that the last group contained only 8 or 16 bits, respectively.

When a base64-encoded string ends in =, that means the length of encoded bytes was not a multiple of 3 (3 bytes = 24 bits), and so it needed padding: = is a padding of 1 byte (8 bits); == is a padding of 2 bytes (16 bits).