# [26](https://s3.amazonaws.com/writecomments.com/transcripts/3d2e7dd435dee557cdb38be81686f003.csv). Account Takeovers

For a bank account takeover, a criminal needs to build a fullz.

> TLO and Delvepoint are both skip tracing software. It delivers the complete background check of that individual. Oftentimes includes driver's license scans, socials, all these, I mean, just a complete background check. Those are outstanding if a criminal has access to it.

Without access to the skip tracing software, the criminal must build a fullz manually.

> I start by going to some place like Robo-check.cm. Criminal database, lists the social security numbers of about 170 million Americans, social security numbers, dates of birth. I buy your social, your date of birth there for $3.80. Now I've got that. From there, I go and get your background check. Where do I go? I start to use legal services like BeenVerified, Spokeo, Intelius, White Pages Pro, and People. For example, BeenVerified lets me look up unlimited background checks for I think $27 a
month right now. I can look up however many background checks I want to. So I pull your background check, every single associates of yours in the hopes of getting your mother's maiden name, which I'll get. From there, I get the credit report. Where do I go? Why go the exact same place you go. Annualcreditreport.com. Why? Well, they ask security questions there, but
there's no time limit on the security questions. Meaning, I can sit there. I can literally sit there all day long with the background checks with Google, try to get the correct answers. ... If I miss some of the questions and don't get the back of the credit report there, am I worried? No, I'm not, because my next stop is Credit Karma, where they ask the exact same questions except the answers, except for the correct answer is different. So now I've got your credit report. Go to LinkedIn to find out where you work. Glassdoor, find out how much you make. Finally, I pay a visit over to Facebook to find out if you've posted anything of interest.