# [2021-10-24](https://s3.amazonaws.com/writecomments.com/transcripts/9176e8e51cf4013377592b12e756c895.csv): Episode 3.2

Kara Swisher interviews an organizational psychologist to get his reaction of an episode of _Succession_. This gets him talking about narcissism.

> Narcissism was not predicted by being neglected as a child. It was predicted by having parents who told you that you were God's gift to humanity, who essentially blew up your ego to the point that you were arrogant. And then what happens is you have these extraordinarily high opinions of yourself. You then enter a social world that's not in that family bubble. And some people think you're an idiot, and other people think you're a jerk. And you end up with this very fragile ego. And so it's not low self-esteem that underpins narcissism. It's extremely high, but extremely fragile or unstable self-esteem.

Narcissism is a label psychologists assign to a set of problematic behaviors.

> This is what we do in psychology. We label things that you already know.

Adam Grant warns that narcissists make poor leaders.

> Everyone is determined to be the smartest person in the room as opposed to asking, how do we make the room smarter? People believe in a zero-sum world where if I want to win, other people have to lose.

When you hear, _we are not just a company, we are a family_, it is your warning that your leaders are dishonest and exploitative.

> People get fired in their jobs a lot more often than they get fired from their families. I think you count on your family to have your back almost no matter what. And I don't think you should expect that of your employer. In the US, we have at-will employment. There's no obligation for corporations to care about you at all.

Kara asks Adam about his method of studying organizational professionals, his subjects.

> As an organizational psychologist, do you ask questions first or not at all, just observe?

Adam strongly prefers talking to his subjects over simply observing their behavior.

> I always want to ask questions because I think even if people aren't telling me the truth or the whole truth, they're telling me something about what they want me to believe. And that gives me a window into what they care about, what they value, and what motivates them. And I need that information if I want to persuade them that they need to change their behavior.

While observation may seem like a way to inject the least amount of bias into the study, Adam sees interviewing his subjects as a way to elicit what he needs observed, and this can still be done in an unbiased way. Observation alone may never reveal the complete understanding of a person as an organizational professional.

> When I ask questions, I'm using the answers less to discover the truth and more to understand what makes them tick.
