# [2025-02-01](https://s3.amazonaws.com/writecomments.com/transcripts/ce411e15bcfce5bccc85f62e0b0d7c0b.csv)

The Trump presidency begins with much bad news. First, a mass firing of government employees, followed by a collision between a passenger plane and a helicopter in Washington, D.C.

> Already they have gotten rid of the head of the FAA, the head of the TSA, eliminated the Aviation Security Committee. I know you guys are very big on firing, but maybe keep the people who talk to the airplanes.

Bill Maher's guest predicts that Trump's bad decisions will continue weakening our nation. He illustrates our nation's vulnerabilities by taking us back to American show of strength that was Operation Desert Storm.

> In 1991, we fought a war and we annihilated the world's fifth largest army in 100 hours.

This show of strength was broadcast on TV for all the world to see.

> We wiped them out on CNN. And that was on purpose that we let the press embed because we thought we were teaching deterrence. We thought we were teaching the world, *if you mess with America on the battlefield, we will annihilate you.* What we were teaching our enemies was asymmetry. The idea that, *okay, well, if you're going to mess with America, don't use bullets and bombs because they're way ahead of us. Use alternative means.* Cyber is one of them.

So the world understood that the American vulnerabilities lie in everything but the military force. Our adversaries have started to prepare to exploit them.

> They've weaponized the private sector.

Now that we have the most exploitable president, it is easy to envision how he will allow foreign adversaries to worm their way into our infrastructure so they can have their way with us.

> Xi Jinping calls Donald Trump and says, *Hey, we'd like to invest a trillion dollars in your meme coins if you privatize the FAA.* Next day, Trump makes a speech and says, *Government's inefficient. We're not going to do it. My good friend Elon, he's got air-rex. Air-rex is going to take over all the air traffic controls.* Flash forward a year from now,	once Chinese spyware and worms are implanted and all their chips are implanted in our aircraft, China is going to invade Taiwan. Then they call Donald Trump again like a mafia don and say, *Remember that plane crash? Be a shame if another thousand planes all fell out of the sky. So back the hell off Taiwan.* And he will. That's how asymmetry works.