# [2025-02-11](https://s3.amazonaws.com/writecomments.com/transcripts/4fc4900482a4e21ab2524c7ef2274bbc.csv): DOGE is not after efficiency. Its sole objective is to serve Elon Musk's interests

Elon Musk uses the excuse of improving government efficiency as he reshapes the government to his liking. And he's not hiding his true motives very well because his department is an abject failure when it comes to filling its purported objective of improving efficiency. DOGE's genius idea to improve efficiency is to pay government workers not to work.

> This administration maintains that they're going to boost efficiency, but they are doing the most inefficient things imaginable. And I'm not just saying that. Quite literally, the most inefficient thing you could possibly do is take American taxpayer dollars and pay people not to work.

Elon Musk is doing this just so his businesses can proceed without regulations. Why are regulations so inconvenient for his businesses? Are the scams? He wants to turn Twitter from a wasteland of conspiracy theories to a payments system, but he needs the CFPB dismantled first presumably so people defrauded by this company have nowhere to go to claw back their money or deter the company from engaging in further fraud.

> He wants you now to be able to use that social media platform, not just for all your needs for posting about weird Nazi race science and threats against reporters or whatever. He now also wants you to be able to use that social media platform as the place where you do all your banking and keep all your money. Because yeah, trust him, what could possibly go wrong? He announced that just weeks ago before he went to war against the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which is the government agency that would be overseeing and regulating that genius, _use Twitter as a payment service_ idea, which Musk just announced. Right, now he's announced that he's killed that agency himself, effectively unilaterally, thanks to the power vested in him as the president's top campaign donor.

This is a theme for Trump's first weeks in office. Any agency that's inconvenient for Musk's businesses suddenly finds itself gutted.

> There is a lot of overlap between what the administration has done and what you might imagine is a wish list
for the President's top campaign donor who's been allowed to essentially have his way with the federal government, including a lot of elements of the federal government that were complicating his business life or cramping his style.

Take it from _WIRED_, a news source that's had to switch their focus from AI to Musk's conflicts of interest to have enough journalistic bandwidth to keep track of this scandalous administration.

> Agencies that are targeting his companies have now had significant disruptions.

Note that we can still report on and condemn such abuses of power on this country. The fascist takeover of American government is an utterly futile pursuit because the American citizens have enjoyed freedom from oppressive governments for generations.

> Trump and Musk and the oligarchs they work for, they are scared of your power, but they are betting that you will be afraid of them. So afraid that you will accept a buyout or comply in advance with their assertion of absolute power. But we know a president is not a king unless we bow. A dictator is not a dictator unless we bow. Our knees, your knees are not made for bowing to power-drunk neofascists.
