# [2025-02-06](https://s3.amazonaws.com/writecomments.com/transcripts/307445b3f1b4dd40dc77a7ee667e3800.csv): judges and lawyers are the last layer of defense against Trump's fascist takeover of the US government

A federal judge appointed by Ronald Reagan speaks out against Trump and in support of the rule of law.

> There are moments in the world's history where people look back and ask, _Where were the lawyers? Where were the judges?_ In these moments, the rule of law becomes especially vulnerable. I refuse to let that beacon go dark today.

As Trump continues to violate the law in his takeover of government, lawyers and judges stand in his way. Meanwhile, the dismantling of the government continues. His cabinet lets a young immature and dangerous Elon Musk fan ruin the department in charge of keeping the American airspace safe.

> Who among us doesn't feel better about having a 19-year-old with links to Russia and famous criminal hackers who goes by the online handle Big Balls in charge of American air traffic control?

This kind of irresponsible stone throwing is why the judges are protesting.

> Courts generally assume that the other branches of government are acting responsibly and show them deference. In this case, Mr. Musk has shown that he doesn't deserve any deference.

The people in Trump's circles are hoping to wear out these judges so they can complete their fascist takeover of the government.

> They're certainly hoping that the courts will get fatigued.

Rachel Maddow asks a law professor what can be done about this.

> Your diagnosis of the problem is unsettling. Does it come with a prescription?

He responds that the American institutions are strong enough to withstand this attack. The final layer of defense against a fascist takeover of the government is the Supreme Court.

> The question is going to ultimately come down to the Supreme Court and whether they're willing to give up their legacy and buy these completely preposterous legal theories. I don't think they are.

As the Supreme Court deliberates, there will be much damage done to the American institutions.

> But a lot of damage is going to get done until ultimately the Supreme Court sends a signal that the rule of law still works around here.

The challenge for this generation of Americans is to repair this damage. For example, the American economy has come to benefit on undocumented labor, and it will take enormous resources to wean the country from this.

> Undocumented folk in this country contribute approximately one hundred billion dollars in taxes and they pay into Social Security that they can't pull down on.

Not to mention the reputational damage of America where it is no longer the land of opportunity for people fleeing oppressive regimes elsewhere.